I
when you support small offices home
offices and remote offices you often run
into older wireless equipment equipment
that's likely secured with Mac filtering
and perhaps a hidden SSID and WEP
encryption now most texts would agree
that Mac filtering alone isn't going to
secure a wireless network and the even
web and a hidden SSID aren't much better
but does mac filtering at least keep out
the lazy hackers i'm bill detwiler today
on IT dojo i'll show you just how easy
it is to spoof a MAC address let's face
it if your wireless network relies on a
combination of WEP encryption a hidden
SSID and Mac filtering for security
you're not really defending against the
hardcore hackers just the slacker
hackers but is it really that easy to
spoof a MAC address if you can follow a
few simple instructions use freely
available tools and copy and paste
you're halfway there here's how you do
it first you'll need to find the target
networks SSID using tools like kismet
and netstumbler you can find this
information in seconds next you'll need
to find a computer's MAC address to
clone now kismet can give you this
information even if you're not currently
connected to the target Network you can
also use a network scanning tool like in
map but you must be connected to the
target Network for in map to work if the
network uses WEP encryption and you
don't know the key you'll need to crack
it now because I'm focusing on spoofing
a MAC address and trying to keep this
video under five minutes I'll save
cracking WEP for another lesson just
know that by using tools like aircrack
and active traffic generation techniques
like d auth and our pre injection you
can crack a 128-bit WEP key in less than
three minutes now let's get back to
spoofing our mac address once you have
the new mac address in hand there are
several ways to spoof that address on
your computer the easiest way is just a
copy and paste the new address into your
wireless network adapter settings to do
this under windows XP open the network
connections window right click on your
why
LS network connection and click
properties now click the configure
button next to your wireless adapter
open the Advanced tab and select the
network address or locally administered
address property copy and paste the new
mac address without the dashes into the
text box click OK and close the network
connection window you can see if the
adapter is using the new mac address
with the ipconfig /all or net config RDR
commands reboot your machine and you're
ready to go if your network adapter
doesn't support mac address cloning you
can still spoof a MAC address by editing
the Windows registry or using free tools
like mac shift for windows XP linux and
freebsd users can easily reset their
network adapters MAC addresses using the
ifconfig command so does mac address
filtering provide real security well
while it's true that if you spoof a mac
address you must either wait until the
spoof the dress is no longer being used
or initiate a man-in-the-middle attack
to remove the address from the target
Network the ease with which you can
spoof a mac address makes the answer no
unless you're only worried about those
slacker hackers bottom line if you're
still using network equipment that
relies on mac filtering hidden SSID and
WEP encryption it's time to upgrade for
more teachings on your path to becoming
an IT ninja visit IT dojo techrepublic
com and please let us know if this tip
was helpful you can also submit your
favorite IT ninja tips by emailing them
to us at iit dojo at techrepublic com if
we use them for an episode of IT dojo
we'll send you a free tech Republic
coffee mug I'm bill detwiler thanks for
visiting tech Republic's IT dojo
you
don't know what I'm saying
know what I'm saying just pick it up mmm
learning how to spoof the mac to bring
something back